(cheerful music)
All right, let's talk about the sanity backend
that we're gonna be building.
So this is the CMS that we're gonna be building.
It's called Sanity.
It's a headless CMS,
which means that, the whole headless term
means that there's no front end, there's no theme,
or there's no way to actually view the data in your website
with Sanity, because it's just the backend,
meaning that we log in,
we're gonna be able to create our content types
and our fields and update data and delete data and all that,
and then the front end is what we're building.
That's Slick's Slices.
And that data is gonna be pulled in via Gatsby,
via a plugin that we use as well as
we're gonna use their graph QL API straight.
So that's what it means as a headless CMS.
And the steps that we take here today will be
almost exactly the same,
regardless of which headless CMS that you take.
You create your data and we're gonna ingest it
into our Gatsby site in a little bit more.
Now, full disclosure, sanity is a sponsor of my podcast,
but they did not pay to be in this tutorial.
I tried out about six or seven of them out there
and I ended up on sanity because I think it's probably
the best balance between up and running quickly
and like done for you.
A lot of it is done for you and you can just use it.
And if you want to customize it,
we're gonna look at how we can do that.
You can customize it, which is kinda cool.
So that's why I'm doing it.
I had a bunch of other companies offer to sponsor
being the CMS in this tutorial, but I thought no.
So let's get rolling.
Sanity.io is the URL that you can have
and we already did this,
but just double check that you have sanity globally
installed on your computer.
You can just type sanity--version
and that will tell you which version you have.
If you get like an error,
like sanity is not a command or something like that,
just go ahead and run this to install globally
on your computer.
Now, normally with a new sanity project,
you type sanity init and what that will do
is it will download all the starter files for you
and it'll give you some base folders
and even it'll give you some examples,
and that's great if you wanna try another project.
However, if we take a look at what I've given you,
it's basically the same output of sanity init.
I didn't do some sneaky coding and give you some of it.
Sometimes people get annoyed when I give them code already,
but this all comes with sanity init.
There's just a couple difference.
I'm using NPM instead of yarn, just to keep it simple.
Yarn has a lot going on right now.
I'm not sure if it will be around for a long time,
so I'm just using that.
And I've got some sample data in here as well as some stuff.
So I basically, and I got VS Code stuff here.
So I basically wanted to give you a folder
with some files in it and sanity init doesn't work
on an empty, that's the only reason
why we're gonna go ahead and do this.
So in order to initialize our app and to log in
and to create a new data set with Sanity,
what you need to do is type sanity init -- reconfigure,
I hit enter.
And what this will do is if you are not already
created an account and signed in with sanity,
it's going to prompt you to create a new account.
If at any time you ever want to re-log in
you just type sanity login,
and that will allow you to go off to the browser, log in
and come back and you will see that you are logged in.
So once you're logged in,
you don't have to create a project or anything like that.
The sanity init is going to do all this for us.
So it has a series of questions for us.
It says, would you like to use an existing project?
You see, I have a couple of existing projects,
or create a new project.
That's what we're gonna do; create a new project.
What do you want to call it?
I'm gonna call it Slicks Slices
and just put your name at the end of there.
That just makes it simple if we're sharing files
or you're trying to get help or something in the chat room,
just put your name on the end.
So you have that.
Then it says your content will be stored
in a dataset that can be public or private.
We'll talk about that in a bit.
By default, it will be called production.
We are gonna go ahead and use production
however you can also have multiple data sets.
So if you wanna do some testing on development
before you move into production,
you're able to do that with sanity.
So I'll just say yes, and it creates a dataset
in the sanity dashboard and we are up and running.
If you take a look here, you might have a yarn.lock file.
Sometimes I see that pop up and not,
you can delete that if you do see it pop up.
The reason why is because we have a similar package
called package lock json,
it's just two different tools
to work with node packages that we have here.
Now, in order to start it, we type npm start.
That is in turn going to run the command sanity start
and that's gonna fire up a little local host server
that will give us something called sanity studio.
So sanity is the API that we interact with
and sanity studio is the actual UI
that would log into and create,
update, read, delete all of our data.
So there we go; local host 3333.
It will pop up here.
It might ask you to log in.
Here we go, it's asking me to log in.
So I'm gonna go ahead and do that.
And I'm logged in.
There's nothing here yet cause we haven't done anything,
but we can go ahead and start making our first schema.
So if we take a look at sanity.json and scroll down here,
you'll see that there are parts, and these are essentially
just pieces of JavaScript file that need to be loaded.
You only ever need to really touch this once when we do
a custom one and you'll see that it goes to the schema.js.
So if we open that up, you'll see here,
we import createSchema,
again, this is all stuff that comes with sanity init.
It's not something you would probably have to remember
or memorize or anything like that.
The important thing is here is that we take
all of our data types and concatenate them into our schema.
So we can go ahead and make our own schema.
Let's start with the pizza schema.
We'll go over to our schema folder, make a new file.
Lowercase P, pizza.js.
And in here, we simply just are going to be exporting
an object that has a bunch of data in it.
So we can just export default, curly brackets,
and we give it a couple of properties.
The name is pizza,
the title is going to be pizzas.
So this is the important thing, the name,
this is the computer name
and this is the visible title
and the type is going to be a document.
You can also create your own fields in here
and we'll be doing that in a future.
Then what we wanna do,
we'll be adding our own fields in just a second,
but what we wanna do is go back
into our schema and import this.
So go down here and say import pizza from pizza.
And then we will pass the reference
to the pizza schema down here.
Then when you save it, it will regen
and reload the sanity Studio here.
It looks like it has to have fields array.
So we'll go here, say fields is going to be an array.
And here's where we define all of the different fields
in an array of objects.
So the first field is going to be our name of the pizza.
So we'll just call it name and the title is going to be,
again, this is the human readable one,
we can call it pizza name.
The type of field is going to be the string.
So if you look at the sanity docs,
they have all kinds of different inputs
and we'll be using a handful of them throughout this course,
as well as creating our own.
And then finally,
the description is going to be the name of the pizza.
Now I bet this will give us some data here,
here we go, pizzas,
and it will allow us to create a new pizza
and we should see just the pizza name,
the name of the pizza and the actual field here.
So don't create one just yet,
we gotta do the rest of the fields.
One thing I wanna do is do an icon.
So here you can say icon
and you can give it any react component.
It's actually kinda interesting.
So if you wanted to, you could just return a bunch of X's
and I believe that should, oh, I forgot a comma.
I believe that should render out there.
Here we go.
So you could render out a pizza emoji if you wanted to.
Pizza, here we go.
Oh, it's gotta be in quotes
and you'll see whatever we pass as the icon
will be rendered out.
So it's kinda interesting.
Everything in sanity studio is a react component
so you can pass it a react component if you want.
In our case, I'm going to be using
a library called React Icons
in order to import the icons myself.
So we're going to import.
It's called MD Local Pizza.
And we'll import that from React Icons forward slash MD.
So React Icons is a library that has, I don't know,
15 different icon libraries built into it.
And there's a couple of different libraries.
MD, I believe it stands for mark down.
Is that true?
React icons, let's see.
No, it stands for material design not mark down.
And that's the icon set I'm gonna be using.
And then I also like to import it not as the long name,
but just as icon.
And then what that will allow me to do is just
pass icon as icon, or if I save this,
you'll see that it goes from icon icon just to simply that
and that's just the shorthand of the property
and the variable name being the same thing.
Now I'll go back to my sanity dashboard
and it's not showing up and it's a lower D.
One thing, if you goof these up a lot,
you can use the react icons
and you can just search for pizza.
It'll show you the actual pizza icon
and you can just click it and it will copy
and you paste it in there
and that will avoid any goof ups of typing it.
You can see there's a whole bunch of different pizza icons
in there, or you can use an emoji, whatever you want.
Oh, here we go.
Looking good.
Okay.
So let's keep going with the rest of these fields.
So we also need a slug field.
So what I like to do is take the first field that we have,
including the closing comma and just duplicate it.
And then we'll say the name is slug, title is slug.
The type is a slug and I'll show you
what that is in just a second.
And then there's not a description,
oh, you can add a description,
but in this case we don't need it, self-explanatory,
but we have an options object inside there.
And we say the source of the slug comes from the name field.
So that comes from this, it's gonna be auto-generated.
And then the max length of the slug
will be 100 characters.
We don't want it to be any longer than that.
Now watch what happens.
We can type in a pizza like pepperoni,
and then you can click generate,
and it will automatically generate a slug.
So, I love to eat pizza and generate,
and you see it will slug-ify
whatever field that we linked it to right there.
Let's copy that first one again and keep going.
We want an image of the pizza, so image.
The title will be photo of,
we'll just call image,
type, it's going to be an image
and options is hotspot is true.
Let me show you what this hotspot thing is.
It's pretty nifty.
So when you go and upload a file in sanity studio.
So I have supplied you with a bunch of images
in the sample data folder of the sanity folder
so you can grab those there if you want them.
So upload this one.
And when you edit that image,
you'll see that it gives you this, oh, that's funny.
It like perfectly circled the pizza.
That's just cause it's an oval.
It's not some sort of pizza detection thing,
but what you can do is you can hotspot
the important information like somebody's face or a device
and then when we have different sizes for mobile, landscape,
pano, square, it will make sure that that important hotspot
is always in the center of the photo
and then the rest of it won't be cropped off.
So that's a really cool feature that sanity has built in.
We also need two more things.
We need toppings and a price.
Right now we don't have the toppings data typed
so we're gonna leave that off until we create it
and then we're gonna create a relationship
between toppings and pizzas.
So we'll go with the last one.
Just paste that first one in again,
and we'll name it the price,
type of a number, and the description,
price of the pizza in cents.
Now, there is a couple more options that you can have
for this one and in our case,
I want it to be a minimum $10 pizza.
You don't want anyone accidentally putting like a $4 pizza
and us going out of business.
So we'll say validation, property, and we get a rule prop.
And from that, you can say rule.min, 1000.
So that's $10 and you can also chain, you could say max,
you only want a maximum of $50 pizza
and there's a whole different set of rules.
So that's how you do data validation inside of sanity.
It's pretty cool because this is just a function
so you could add any logic that you want in there.
And they specifically give you this rule object
that has a number of helper methods for common things,
minimum, maximum, includes, things like that.
And then we will also,
let's add a to do, add custom component
because I wanna show you how to do custom input components
in sanity because, like price is a number,
we want a little bit more control over how it looks.
And I'm gonna show you how to do that in a coming video.
So give that a save
and now you'll see that we've got all of our,
that's actually cool, it just hot reloads it
and keeps the data that I have
even though this is not a saved value just yet.
So we could say the price of the pizza is $10 and 34 cents
and go ahead and hit publish on that.
You see that now we have pizza.
You can make a few more but hold off on that
just until we create the other data types
in the coming videos.